# Voice samples

A rising number of HCI scholars have begun to use materialityas a starting point for exploring the design’s potential andrestrictions. Despite the theoretical flourishing, the practicaldesign process and instruction for beginner practitioners arestill in scarcity. We leveraged the pictorial format to illustrateour crafting process of Puffy, a bio-inspired artifact thatfeatures a cilia-mimetic surface expressing anthropomorphicqualities through shape changes. Our approach consists ofthree key activities (i.e., analysis, synthesis, and detailing)interlaced recursively throughout the journey. Using thisapproach, we analyzed different input sources, synthesizedpeers’ critiques and self-reflection, and detailed the designedexperience with iterative prototypes. Building on a reflectiveanalysis of our approach, we concluded with a set of practicalimplications and design recommendations to inform otherpractitioners to initiate their investigations in interactivemateriality.

Another implication we gained from reviewing this project is to have rich documentationthat captures the subtlety, and temporality of shape-changing, for example, recordingvideos or sketching transition graphs as shown on p. 4. The purpose of having suchdocumentation is not only for post-hoc analysis or inspiration for future practice, butalso very much needed in supporting sensemaking and decision-making throughout thedesign process. In retrospect, the process started with selecting inspirations throughabstracting features and fabricating and evaluating the materiality. Throughout thesesteps, we centralized our designer’s embodied perception and comprehension ofthe material composites or materiality to enable our best multi-modal appreciation.As mentioned earlier, our design process has been constituted by multiple rounds ofAnalysis, Synthesis, and Detailing. In each round, we also heavily built upon the designrationales generated in previous rounds. However, much of our design experimentations,evaluations, and decisions cannot be fully communicated by texts, but we need to rely onvisual communication. On the other hand, visual documentation can also help designersreview how their decisions were made since design decisions can sometimes go intuitiveand unconscious. Rich visual documentation using video clips, photos, or sketchingcould therefore benefit communication and deliberation throughout the process.

To address this question, we present a mixed materialityapproach by which we yielded Puffy, a shape-changingartifact that spontaneously changes its shape and materialityto express its emotions. Our design process consisting of threekey activities (A-S-D, i.e., analysis, synthesis, and detailing, seep. 2) is mainly based on two approaches, namely biomimicry and interactive materiality. We used biomimicry-aliketo generate implications serving as a source of inspiration. Inthe follow-up steps, we analyzed different sources of inputgained in various stages, synthesized self-reflections andpeers’ critiques, and detailed the design through iterativeprototyping.In short, we contribute the HCI community a concreteinteractive materiality design case and moreover we offer anillustrative step-by-step guide and prototyping suggestion toassist interaction design practitioners to design interactionsthat feature in rich temporality, interactive materiality, andcomputational aesthetics.
